# Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set Analysis

The data set may be obtained from the [UCI Machine Learning Repository](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones).

The `run_analysis.R` script expects the data set to be available in a sub-folder `data` relative to the script.  For example, the test data file path should be at `./data/test/X_test.txt`.  The file paths are defined as variables at the top of the script after the package imports for convenience.

The `run_analysis.R` script extracts only those columns that contain a `mean` or a `standard deviation` value from the original data set.  These columns are identified in the original data by searching for `mean()` and `std()` within the column names and yielding an index vector.  The test and train data are then subset with that index vector.  

A new, tidier, vector of variable names is generated by lowercasing and removing any characters which match `-()`.  The new names are then applied to the subset test and train data, replacing the existing variable names.

The script introduces an `activity` character value column containing the name of each activity from `activity_labels.txt`.  It also introduces a `subject` identifier column which connects the subject to the measurement vectors from test and train data sourced in `subject_test.txt` and `subject_train.txt` respectively.

The test and train data are then merged into one data set.  The resulting merged data set is saved as the `fullData` variable.

The `run_analysis.R` script will also create a summarised set of data which gives the mean value for each measurement grouped by the `subject` and `activity`.  This is written out to the `mean_activities.txt` file, which can be read back into R by running:

```
read.table("mean_activities.txt", header = TRUE)
```

Original Data Set License:
==========================
Use of this dataset in publications must be acknowledged by referencing the following publication [1] 

[1] Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012

This dataset is distributed AS-IS and no responsibility implied or explicit can be addressed to the authors or their institutions for its use or misuse. Any commercial use is prohibited.

Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Davide Anguita. November 2012.
